The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Daughter of Japan, by F. D. Bone

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: A Daughter of Japan

Author: F. D. Bone

Release Date: May 12, 2018 [EBook #57141]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A DAUGHTER OF JAPAN ***




Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, David E. Brown, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This file was produced from images generously made
available by The Internet Archive)









A DAUGHTER OF JAPAN




  A DAUGHTER OF
  JAPAN

  By
  F. D. BONE

  COPYRIGHT, 1914, BY SAMUEL FRENCH, LTD.

  NEW YORK
  SAMUEL FRENCH
  PUBLISHER
  28-30 WEST 38TH STREET

  LONDON
  SAMUEL FRENCH LTD
  26 SOUTHAMPTON STREET
  STRAND




A DAUGHTER OF JAPAN




CHARACTERS


  LIEUT.-COMMANDER BELSON, R.N.
  LIEUTENANT JOHN MAITLAND, R.N.
  PRIVATE SIMPSON, R.M.L.I.
  OMETSU SAN.


SCENE.--_A room in a Japanese house. It is tastefully furnished in a
half-English, half-native style. A round table for meals. A sideboard
with a tantalus. A piano, and one or two long bamboo chairs. A
well-filled book-case. A verandah can be seen through the doorway._

_OMETSU is dressed in native costume. BELSON in flannels with broad
felt hat. MAITLAND in riding breaches and blazer. SIMPSON in white
drill, with white canvas shoes._




A DAUGHTER OF JAPAN


    _SIMPSON is laying the table for breakfast. He is looking very
    solemn. A bell rings. He starts and looks nervously over his
    shoulder at the door. LIEUT.-COMMANDER BELSON appears in the
    doorway. SIMPSON takes a few steps towards him, salutes, and then
    stands at “attention.”_

BELSON (_in a hard, quarterdeck voice_). Is that you, Simpson?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

BELSON (_coming into the room_). Where is Mr. Maitland?

SIMPSON. Gone riding, sir.

BELSON. When do you expect him back?

SIMPSON. To breakfast, sir. About half an hour.

BELSON (_looking SIMPSON up and down_). You’re a bright beauty,
aren’t you?

SIMPSON (_moving his feet awkwardly_). You don’t know what I’ve been
through, sir. I did all a man----

BELSON (_sharply_). Oh, yes, I know.... When you sent that letter to
the Captain saying where we could find Mr. Maitland--and you, why
didn’t you explain why he was hiding away?

SIMPSON. Well, sir, his business is no business of mine. I done all I
could to get him back to the ship, sir, but he wouldn’t listen to me,
sir. He said he’d stop and marry her if the Navy went to the bottom for
it.

BELSON. Marry her! Marry whom?

SIMPSON. The little Japanese lady, sir.

BELSON (_startled, shouting_). The what?

SIMPSON (_very uncomfortably_). The little Japanese lady, sir. Miss
Ometsu.

BELSON (_more startled_). And who the devil’s she?

SIMPSON. She’s the daughter of a Japanese naval officer, sir. He was
killed in the war. Her brother’s in the service too, sir. She talks
just like you and me, sir. She lives here with her mother, sir.

BELSON (_draws back and again looks SIMPSON up and down_). The deuce
she does! Then Mr. Maitland is a guest here!

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

BELSON. How long has this been going on?

SIMPSON. Oh, for a long time, sir; nearly a year.

BELSON. And do you tell me that Mr. Maitland is going to _marry_ this
Japanese lady?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir. That’s why I wrote, sir. I didn’t want him to leave
the Navy, sir.

BELSON (_grunts_). And what about yourself?

SIMPSON. I don’t want to leave it neither, sir. I’ve got fifteen years’
service and I should like to earn a pension.

BELSON. I should think you’re more likely to earn six months for
desertion. Do you know that you are absent from the ship now?

SIMPSON (_in agony_). Not until to-night, sir, is it? I thought there’d
be time----

BELSON. I don’t want to know what you thought. Why didn’t you write
before--when you knew what he meant to do?

SIMPSON. I ’oped against ’ope, sir.

BELSON. You hoped! And what were you stopping for? Were you to marry a
Japanese, too?

SIMPSON (_putting out his hands_). No, sir, no. I don’t hold with it,
sir. But she’s a sweet little thing, sir, and I know she’s very fond of
him. It makes me real bad to think what’ll happen when they see you,
sir. I think he’ll half-kill me. (_Turning away._) I wish we’d never
come to Japan!

BELSON (_looking round the room_). And where are the ladies?

SIMPSON. They’ll be down to breakfast in a minute, sir!

BELSON (_immediately uneasy_). Well, I’ll go and meet Mr. Maitland, and
you’d better get ready to come back at once. We’ve no time to lose if
we’re to catch the ship. (_Turns to go out._)

SIMPSON. When does she sail, sir?

BELSON. To-morrow morning.

SIMPSON (_gasping_). For home, sir?

BELSON (_going out_). Yes.

    (_SIMPSON shows signs of perturbation, and wipes his face with his
    handkerchief. He looks in a half-dazed way round the room, and then
    goes to the table to complete preparations for breakfast. Through
    the curtained doorway on right, OMETSU appears, dressed in a
    charming Japanese costume, with satin slippers to match her robe._)

OMETSU. Good-morning, Simpson.

SIMPSON. Good-morning, miss.

OMETSU (_going to table_). Mother is not coming down to breakfast,
Simpson. So there’ll only be Mr. Maitland and me. (_Skips._) Isn’t it
lovely. Has he gone riding?

SIMPSON (_still fooling about the table_). Yes, miss.

OMETSU. And he will be back quite soon, won’t he, Simpson? It always
seems so long when he’s away. (_She runs to the door and looks out._)
It’s heavenly, and to-day! I am so happy to-day. (_Goes to table and
looks up at SIMPSON._) Do you know what to-day is, Simpson? It’s my
birthday! I’m seventeen--quite a woman now, and next week at this time
I shall be Mrs. Maitland, and you’ll be calling me mam! (_She gives a
happy little laugh._) Aren’t you going to wish me many happy returns,
Simpson?

SIMPSON (_turns to her sadly, tries to speak, shakes his head and turns
away_).

OMETSU (_in a tone of anxiety_). Why, what’s the matter? Are you not
well?

SIMPSON (_pulls himself together_). Yes, miss.... No, I don’t think I
am, miss. I don’t know. Something’s come over me which makes me feel
quite bad. I don’t think this climate quite suits me, miss.

OMETSU. Not suit you? Why, you’ve always been quite well until now. It
can’t be the climate. (_Anxiously._) Would you like a little brandy?

SIMPSON (_eagerly_). Yes, yes, please, miss. (_He sinks into a chair
while she runs to the sideboard and pours him out a peg._)

OMETSU (_brings the brandy_). There! I am so sorry, I wonder what’s
brought this on?

SIMPSON (_gulps down the brandy_). Thank ye, miss. I shall be better
now. (_He gets up and takes the glass to the sideboard and then
turns._) Do you know, miss----Your father was a sailor, wasn’t he?

OMETSU (_wonderingly_). Yes.

SIMPSON. In your Navy?

OMETSU. Yes.

SIMPSON. And he was an officer, wasn’t he?

OMETSU. Yes, a commander--but why----?

SIMPSON. And he was killed in the war, wasn’t he?

OMETSU (_nods her head_).

SIMPSON. Well, wouldn’t you like Mr. Maitland to go and do that?

OMETSU (_eyes wide with terror_). Mr. Maitland ... killed.... Has
something happened?... Oh, what is it?

SIMPSON (_alarmed at her being alarmed_). No, no, I don’t mean that,
miss; I don’t mean that. I mean---- (_Blows his cheeks out._) I don’t
know what I mean?

OMETSU (_coming to him_). Simpson, what _do_ you mean?

SIMPSON (_with supreme effort_). Well, miss, I mean Once a Sailor
always a Sailor! (_He draws back as if he had explained everything._)

OMETSU. Oh, is that all?

SIMPSON. All? Why, miss, it’s everything. Mr. Maitland can never help
being a sailor now.

OMETSU (_laughs with relief_). You funny man, Simpson. You make such a
lot out of nothing. Of course Mr. Maitland’s a sailor. Isn’t he going
to take me--and you--for a long cruise among the South Sea Islands? We
shall be perfectly happy down there, Simpson. You will get rid of all
your troubles then.

SIMPSON (_groans, looks at her and shakes his head_). I don’t think he
ought to leave the Navy, miss. Think what----

OMETSU (_walks away towards piano_). Simpson! Mr. Maitland has told you
that you are not to speak to me about this. He has quite made up his
mind, and you have promised to leave the service too and come with us.
Surely Mr. Maitland has offered you sufficient----

SIMPSON. Yes, miss, yes, but it isn’t that. It isn’t my pension I’m
thinking about ... but I’d like to finish my time with him.

OMETSU. Oh, Simpson, don’t be silly.... You will finish it with him.
He’s going to do ever so much more for you than your Navy can. And
didn’t he say you should come to our wedding and be his best man
and sign the register? And when we go away you will be in charge
of everything. Why, you will be quite a big man; and Jack--Mr.
Maitland, says we may go pearl-fishing, and you will make your fortune
then.... (_SIMPSON still looks dully at her._) Oh, you _are_ grumpy
this morning. I don’t like you a bit. I wish I hadn’t given you the
brandy now. (_Shakes an accusing finger at him._) I think you’ve been
drinking. (_She goes to the piano and plays a snatch of Mandalay.
Almost immediately MAITLAND’S voice joins in the song. As he reaches
the doorway she gives a little scream of delight, jumps off the stool
and runs to meet him. He catches her in his arms. SIMPSON quickly
leaves by the door on left._)

JACK. Sweetheart!

OMETSU (_holding her face to his_). Dear--dear!

JACK (_leading her down and then stopping to kiss her forehead_). Many
happy returns, sweetheart Quite a grown-up, now, aren’t you?

OMETSU (_standing on tiptoe_). Yes, quite a woman--look! (_He catches
her to him._)

JACK (_leading her to chair at table and sits himself_). And what _do_
you think I’ve got for you? One of them is wonderful--I shall give only
that one in my whole lifetime.

OMETSU (_looking eagerly at him_). Sweetheart! Tell me! (_He takes two
packets from his pocket, one of them is an envelope. He unfolds the
small packet and holds up a bracelet. She gives a little gurgle of
delight and holds out her left wrist. He clasps it, and then touches a
spring. A lid flies open like a watch. She gives a little scream._) Oh,
oh, it’s your portrait. Isn’t it lovely! (_She looks at it, and then
says, curiously, as she closes it down._) You darling! And what’s the
other? I _am_ a lucky girl! (_He takes a document from an envelope,
unfolds it and offers it to her._)

JACK. Our marriage license! (_Laughs joyously as she stares at it._) So
we can be married next Thursday, if mother says yes. By the way, where
is she?

OMETSU. She said she wouldn’t come down this morning. She said she knew
I’d like to have breakfast alone with you to-day. Isn’t she a dear!

JACK. She’s a clinker. Well, we’ll ask her when she comes down. But
what about some breakfast? I’m famished! (_Shouts._) Simpson! (_Bangs a
bell on the table._) Simpson! (_Turns to OMETSU._) You can’t make love
properly when you’re starving, you know pettling. Wait till I’ve had
some breakfast, and then----I’ll tell you! (_Bangs the bell again and
shouts._) Simpson! Confound the man, what’s up with him this morning?

OMETSU. Well, he is funny, dear! He’s been on again about your leaving
the Navy.

JACK (_jumps up and bangs the table_). I won’t have it. I won’t have
it! I’ll kick him out. He can go back alone. How dare he talk to you
about it when I told him not to. (_Turns to door on left._) I’ll let
him know if he’s going to defy orders. (_At the door he meets SIMPSON
with breakfast on tray._) Here, you blackguard, what do you mean by
it? Didn’t I tell you that I wouldn’t have you talking to mam’zelle
about my leaving the Navy?

SIMPSON (_going towards table and looking straight to his front_). Yes,
sir. (_Goes on with his work._)

JACK (_following behind and shouting_). Haven’t I sent in my papers?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

JACK. Haven’t I sent in the money for your discharge?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

JACK. Didn’t I say that the Navy could go to the devil?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

JACK. And didn’t I say that I’d break your neck if I heard any more
about it?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

JACK. And aren’t you satisfied with my terms?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir, of course----

JACK. Then, what do you mean by it? Look here, Simpson, if you’re not
very careful I’ll not let you speak to mam’zelle at all. (_He says
this as if he had ordered SIMPSON out to instant execution._) I’m
trying to make everything as nice and comfortable as I can for you.
I’ve said a lot of nice things to mam’zelle about you, and tried to
make her like you too, and this is how you serve me. (_Putting down
his fist impressively on the table._) I won’t have another word said
about the Navy. We’ve done with it. Mam’zelle and I are to be married
on Thursday. (_He puts out one hand towards her and she takes it._)
We shall sail for Singapore a day or two after. At Singapore I shall
charter a small vessel, and we shall go for a long cruise--and I don’t
know when we are coming back. Now, Simpson, did you grasp all that?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

JACK. You’re quite sure you understand about the Navy?

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

JACK. No more whining about it?

SIMPSON. No, sir.

JACK. No more lamentations about your fifteen years’ service?

SIMPSON. No, sir.

JACK (_sitting_). Then serve the breakfast! (_During the conversation
at the table, SIMPSON makes two or three attempts to break in and
explain the real cause of his distress--but his courage fails each
time. He shows by his manner, also, that the discussion of their plans
causes him acute suffering._)

JACK (_turning to OMETSU_). Well, little woman, what shall
we do to-day? Something beautiful, something delightful,
wonderful--because--you can’t have another seventeenth birthday. Shall
we go to the lake and have a little picnic all by our two selves?
(_She smiles and nods delightedly._) And we’ll draw up plans for the
wedding. (_Turns to SIMPSON, who is waiting on them._) You know,
Simpson, I’d half made up my mind to let you come and be a witness at
the wedding, but I feel very angry with you just now. I don’t think you
ought to be near her at present. I think you’d better keep out of the
way until after the wedding. (_Turns to OMETSU._) Would you like me to
keep him out of sight, darling?

OMETSU. Oh, no, dear. I’m sure he didn’t mean to make me unhappy.

JACK. Yes, I know, sweetheart, but he mustn’t make these mistakes.
Well, I’ll think about it. Make up a nice tiffin for us Simpson.
Everything of the best. Put in a small bottle of champagne for me.
(_Pause._) D’ye hear, Simpson?

SIMPSON (_who is standing behind, chokingly_). Yes, sir.

JACK. Shall I drive Darling in the trap? We can take Simpson with us,
and he can bring it back and then fetch us about four or five, eh,
sweetheart?

OMETSU (_smiles and nods_). Lovely!

JACK (_still going on with his breakfast_). Did you hear that, Simpson?
Go out and tell the boy to have the trap ready by---- (_Looks at
his watch, and then turns to OMETSU._) Shall we say eleven o’clock,
sweetheart? It’s ten now.

OMETSU. Yes, dear, that will do beautifully.

JACK. Eleven o’clock, Simpson. Tell him to be here at eleven; and I
shall want you to come with us and bring the trap back. (_Pause;
SIMPSON shows signs of distress._) Simpson, did you hear what I said?
(_Turns round and sees SIMPSON’S face._) What’s the matter, man?
Aren’t you well?

SIMPSON (_licks his lips_). Well, sir-- (_swallows_) the fact is, sir,
I don’t feel up to much this morning, sir. (_Wipes his face._)

OMETSU. Jack, dear, I don’t think he can be well. He was like that when
I came down, and I had to give him some brandy----

JACK (_wheeling round in his chair_). Brandy! Simpson, what do you want
brandy for?

SIMPSON. It’s just a touch of faintness, sir, I think--I think----

JACK. You think? Are you sure you’ve not been drinking?

SIMPSON. No, sir, no, really.... I’m all right, now, sir.

JACK. Well, you don’t look it. But the drive will put you right. You
run out and tell the boy to bring the trap here by eleven.

SIMPSON. Yes, sir. (_SIMPSON goes out half-dazed, and JACK sits down
again._)

JACK (_in a tone of sympathy to OMETSU_). I know what it is, darling.
He’s fretting about me and the ship. Of course I know he thinks I’m a
wonderful sailor and that I’m cut out for an admiral, and that nobody’s
worth knowing who isn’t in the Navy; but he’ll soon get over that once
we’re at Singapore and get to work on our little schooner. By Jove,
pettling, we shall have to show what we can do as sailors then!

OMETSU. But I shall be with you, and we shall be so happy, and I am so
proud of you, Jack--my Jack!

    (_She slides off her chair and turns towards him; he pushes his
    chair back and holds out his arms and takes her on his knees._)

JACK. And I am proud of you.... Why--you’ve got a new dress?

OMETSU (_nods her head, and looks at him quizzically_). And you hadn’t
noticed it before? Mother gave it to me for my birthday. Do you like
it? (_She slips off his knee and struts in front of him._)

JACK. It’s a vision, darling, a vision of delight. But I want to hold
you; come here.

OMETSU (_she trips back to him, and leaning her face against his
shoulder, says dreamily_). I am _so_ happy!

JACK. So am I. So happy that it seems like a beautiful dream. I
sometimes have to stop and shake myself to make sure that I’m not lying
in that stuffy old bunk of mine on the Leviathon. But it’s no dream.
It’s a wonderful, beautiful reality----

OMETSU. Yes, it is wonderful. I am a lucky girl.

JACK. And I’m a lucky boy, and we’ll say that every day for years and
years and----

OMETSU. We’ll never get tired?

JACK. Never, never! (_With emphasis._) _Never!_

    (_BELSON appears in the doorway. After a pause, OMETSU lifting up
    her face to kiss JACK’S cheek, sees him over JACK’S shoulder.
    She gives a little scream and breaks away. JACK turns in his seat
    and looks in the direction of BELSON. For a moment he stares at
    him, and then rises slowly, gripping the rail of his chair. OMETSU
    sidles up and lays a hand on his arm, and looks up at his face
    with apprehension. The two men face each other for several seconds
    without speaking._)

BELSON (in a hard voice). Mr. Maitland! (_JACK makes no reply, and
BELSON comes half way towards them._)

JACK (_hoarsely_). What do you want--sir?

BELSON (_sternly_). I want you. (_OMETSU clutches at JACK’S arm._)

JACK. I’m not going back! I’ve sent in my resignation. I’m going to
stay here--with my wife.

BELSON. Then you’re already married?

JACK. No, but we shall be--on Thursday.

BELSON. Maitland, the Captain’s orders are that you come back with me
to the ship.

JACK. I’m sorry, sir, but I can’t do it. I’ve made up my mind to leave
the Navy. (_Suddenly._) But how did you know I was here? How could you
know? (_Sees SIMPSON standing just inside the door with a hang-dog
look._) (_Pointing at him._) By heaven, a traitor! (_Shakes off OMETSU
and strides towards SIMPSON, but BELSON gets between them._)

BELSON. Maitland, don’t forget that you are still a naval officer!

JACK. Traitor! This is what you call loyalty to a master who gave you
his confidence, was ready to make a friend of you, and would make
you independent of everything and everybody! In return you play the
low-down sneak. You betray me and try to wreck my happiness and my
life. But you’ve failed! Get out, you filthy viper----

SIMPSON (_holding out his hands imploringly_). I did it for your sake,
sir. I thought----

JACK (_furiously_). Get out, or by----

BELSON (_stepping forward and holding up a hand to stop him_). The man
did quite right----

JACK. He didn’t. He promised to stand by me, and he’s sold me. But I
won’t come back. You can’t make me. I refuse. I’m my own master. I’ve
sent in my resignation and they can take it or be damned to them!
(_Turns towards OMETSU who nestles up to him. He turns to BELSON._)
Mr. Belson, is there any need to prolong----

BELSON. Will you introduce me?

JACK (_hesitates, and then presents OMETSU_). Madamoiselle Ometsu
San--Lieut.-Commander Belson. (_They bow stiffly._)

BELSON (_gravely_). Mam’zelle, would you permit me to have a few
minutes with Mr. Maitland alone?

JACK (_quickly_). No--no--I refuse. Don’t go, sweetheart! I’m very
sorry, sir, but I can’t go. I have finished with the Navy----

BELSON (_to OMETSU_). Mam’zelle, do you know that Mr. Maitland has been
ten years in the British Navy? (_She bows._) Do you know that if he
resigns his commission he will never be able to get back? (_She remains
silent._) Do you know--pardon me--but do you know that if you marry him
he will not be able to go back to England?

JACK. Oh, yes, I can! But I shan’t want to. We are going away to live
our own lives----

BELSON. You mean----

JACK. Yes, I mean----

BELSON.--that you’re going to be a voluntary outcast--a vagabond----

JACK. Well, it doesn’t matter to you what I do so long as I----

BELSON. Yes, it does. You belong to an honourable profession and you
are trying to leave it dishonourably.

JACK (_hotly_). No, I’m not. I’ve sent in my papers----

BELSON. Which will not be accepted. Mam’zelle, do you think that your
father would have treated the Japanese Navy as Mr. Maitland proposes to
treat the British?

JACK. That’s nothing to do with it. There’s no war on. You only want to
take me home to England. I don’t want to go--I _won’t_ go.

BELSON. Mam’zelle, do you think that your brother would act like this?
Would you respect him if he did? And believe me--I say it with all
deference--“East is East and West is West.”

JACK (_hoarsely_). No, it is not so! And if it is, Ometsu and I will
run the risk. (_He looks down at her, but she stands like a statue._)

BELSON. You wouldn’t like your brother to marry Maitland’s sister in
England, and then sail away out of your lives. His mother is a widow.
Who is going to look after her and her affairs when she grows old?
(_Pause._) Apart from that, do you think that he will be happy knowing
that he has deserted the Navy?

JACK. Grrrrrrrrh! There are plenty more without me!

BELSON. No country can afford to lose good men. And you will be lost,
Maitland--_lost_--if you carry out this mad project----

JACK. Very well, let me be mad!

OMETSU (_to BELSON in a strained voice_). Do you really believe that
if I married Jack I should spoil his life?

JACK (_in agony_). Ometsu! Don’t think of such a thing!

OMETSU (_looks at BELSON, and he bows in the affirmative. She
continues, in the same strained voice_). I remember now that during
the war the women were called on to sacrifice themselves. Jack, if you
don’t go back your country will lose one man--one good man. Who knows,
dear, that one day, years to come, you may be the one man who might
save your country! Ought we to run that risk?

JACK. But, darling, that is too preposterous----

OMETSU. No, dear, it isn’t. No one can tell who will be the saviour
of his country. Jack, darling, we must think of that. We must--I
must--think of what ought to be done for love of country.... You will
have to go--Jack.

JACK. Ometsu! You are not--you are not afraid?

BELSON. Afraid! Maitland, she is a daughter of Japan! You are a son of
England! _She_ sees--_she_ knows----

JACK. She doesn’t! Ometsu!

OMETSU. Yes, I do, Jack; _dear_ Jack! You must go back--it was a
mistake. (_She tries to draw away from him, but he holds her by her
wrists._) You must go, Jack. And if you come back--I’ll wait. I--I
shan’t forget--dear heart!

JACK. But--Ometsu!

OMETSU. Jack, dear, we had forgotten--there are greater claims than
that of love. Your _country_ wants you. It has a greater claim on you
than I.... Don’t make it too hard for me.... You know that you ought to
go.

BELSON (_almost sharply_). Maitland, show her that you are a man!

JACK (_holds out his arms, she comes to him_). You believe it the right
thing to do, Ometsu?

OMETSU. Yes, dear--and I will wait--and wait.

JACK. And I will come back--you shall _be_ my wife! (_He bends down and
kisses her. BELSON comes forward and takes his arm, and gently draws
him away. BELSON turns quickly to OMETSU, takes her hand and kisses
it almost reverently. Then he leads JACK almost dazed from the room._)

    (_OMETSU stands and watches them go through the door. SIMPSON
    stands rigidly to attention as they pass._)

BELSON (_to SIMPSON as they pass_). Pack up and follow!

SIMPSON. Yes, sir.

    (_As BELSON and JACK disappear, OMETSU staggers to a chair by
    the table and with a little sob drops her head on her arms._)

SIMPSON (_goes to her and bends over her; speaks brokenly_). He said
he’d come back--I’ll bring him back! (_He waits for a moment but she
takes no notice. He then picks up the corner of the sleeve of her
kimono, presses it to his lips, and then goes out slowly. As he reaches
the door the curtain falls._)


_Printed by BUTLER & TANNER, Frome and London._




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Text in italics is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Archaic or alternate spelling which may have been in use at the time
    of publication has been retained.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Daughter of Japan, by F. D. Bone

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A DAUGHTER OF JAPAN ***

***** This file should be named 57141-0.txt or 57141-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/7/1/4/57141/

Produced by Mary Glenn Krause, David E. Brown, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This file was produced from images generously made
available by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.